---
title: CTE vs Temp Table vs Table Variable
author: Iulian
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=173
categories:
  - Sql

---
**CTE** &#8211; stands for Common Table expressions. A common table expression (CTE) can be thought of as a temporary result set that is defined within the execution scope of a single SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, or CREATE VIEW statement. A CTE is similar to a derived table in that it is not stored as an object and lasts only for the duration of the query. Unlike a derived table, a CTE can be self-referencing and can be referenced multiple times in the same query.
  
Unlike temporary table its life is limited to the current query. It is defined by using WITH statement. CTE improves readability and ease in maintenance of complex queries and sub-queries. Always begin CTE with semicolon.

When to use CTE:

  * This is used to store result of a complex sub query for further use.
  * This is also used to create a recursive query.

**Temporary Tables**
  
Local temp tables are only available to the SQL Server session or connection (means single user) that created the tables. These are automatically deleted when the session that created the tables has been closed. Local temporary table name is stared with single hash (&#8220;#&#8221;) sign.

**Global Temp Table**
  
Global temp tables are available to all SQL Server sessions or connections (means all the user). These can be created by any SQL Server connection user and these are automatically deleted when all the SQL Server connections have been closed. Global temporary table name is stared with double hash (&#8220;##&#8221;) sign.

Global temporary tables are visible to all SQL Server connections while Local temporary tables are visible to only current SQL Server connection.

**Table Variable**
  
This acts like a variable and exists for a particular batch of query execution. It gets dropped once it comes out of batch. This is also created in the Tempdb database but not the memory. This also allows you to create primary key, identity at the time of Table variable declaration but not non-clustered index.

**Summary**
  
1. Temp Tables are physically created in the Tempdb database. These tables act as the normal table and also can have constraints, index like normal tables.
  
2. CTE is a named temporary result set which is used to manipulate the complex sub-queries data. This exists for the scope of statement. This is created in memory rather than Tempdb database. You cannot create any index on CTE.
  
3. Table Variable acts like a variable and exists for a particular batch of query execution. It gets dropped once it comes out of batch. This is also created in the Tempdb database but not in the memory.